<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Meeting on 2025-02-06 for TC54-TG3

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 19:00 to 20:00 UTC
    - timezones: https://internet-ti.me/@834
- **Attendee information**:
  - [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=MGNlbWgwcDdoYWtwbjhvZ[‚Ä¶]4f08c63792f2e654f2a7ebc%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)

## Agenda items

- Brainstorm ways to get more community participation
- Adopt RFC 2119 language in the CLE?
- Review the technical choices document

## Attendees:

- Benji Visser
- Jordan Harband
- Salve J. Nilsen
- Mark Symons
- Steve Springett
- Piotr Karwasz

## Notes:

### Overview

 In the recent Technical Discussion and Planning meeting, participants commenced by reviewing the merged constraints document and progressing on the rationale and specifications, aiming for ECMA GA approval by December with a September 1st final draft submission deadline. The discussion transitioned to versioning schemes, highlighting the use of VERS for standardizing syntax across various systems like semver and npm, while considering whether to allow specific schemes within the CLE specification. The team addressed component renaming, evaluating its implications on versioning and ongoing support for legacy versions, followed by a dialogue on structuring the specification, which may initially focus on open-source projects with potential future expansions. Enhancements to event descriptions for clarity were proposed, distinguishing between summary and explanatory purposes. Action items included Benji updating the PR with agreed changes and all participants preparing for a review before the next meeting, as well as planning further discussions on extended support options and package manager integration.

 ##### üéØ **Meeting Kickoff and Document Review** (00:00 - 09:14)
- Merged constraints.md document
- Working on rationale document, technical choices, and example spec
- Aiming for ECMA GA approval by December
- Need to submit final draft by September 1st
- TC54 plenary review needed by August 1st
##### üìä **Versioning Schemes and Ranges** (09:14 - 19:39)
- Discussed using VERS for version range specification
- VERS covers semver, npm, Debian, Red Hat, and other versioning schemes
- VERS standardizes syntax but doesn't define parsing for specific schemes
- Considered allowing or restricting versioning schemes in CLE spec
##### üîß **Component Renaming and Event Types** (19:42 - 31:08)
- Discussed component renamed event and its implications
- Considered separating project renaming from version-specific replacements
- Debated inclusion of version information in renaming events
- Discussed handling of renamed projects with ongoing support for old versions
##### üìà **Specification Structure and Scope** (31:08 - 40:35)
- Considered limiting initial scope to open-source projects and major package registries
- Discussed potential future expansion to hardware and other use cases
- Agreed on adding a version field to the specification for future compatibility
##### üîç **Event Descriptions and Schema** (40:35 - 48:01)
- Discussed improving event descriptions to be more human-readable
- Considered encoding boilerplate descriptions for common events
- Debated purpose of description field (summary vs. explanation of reasons)
##### üìù **Next Steps and Future Discussions** (48:01 - 55:57)
- Planned to review PR for different events asynchronously
- Scheduled discussion on extended support options for next meeting
- Planned to discuss distribution and package manager integration

### Action items

##### **Benji**
- Update PR with discussed changes and post update in Slack (55:48)
##### **All participants**
- Review updated PR before next meeting (55:43)
- Prepare for discussion on extended support options and distribution in next meeting (55:20)

## Recording

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HOy__yHqcho
