<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Meeting on 2025-06-26 for TC54-TG3

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 19:00 to 20:00 UTC
    - timezones: https://internet-ti.me/@834
- **Attendee information**:
  - [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=MGNlbWgwcDdoYWtwbjhvZ[â€¦]4f08c63792f2e654f2a7ebc%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)

## Agenda items

## Attendees:

- Mark Symons
- Steve Springett
- Benji Visser
- Jordan Harband

## Agenda items

- Outstanding pre-review tasks
- Mutable vs. immutable events
- Identifiers / aliases
- Dynamic support-policy model
- Aliasing across ecosystems (npm, gem, OS repos, Docker, etc.)
- Scope & timeline

## Attendees:

- Benji Visser
- Steve Springett
- Jordan Harband
- Mark Symons

## Notes:

### Outstanding pre-review tasks

Items still required for the CLE spec review:
- **(a)** discovery mechanism (well-known dir, etc.). Will do for v1.
- **(b)** vouching. Won't do for v1.
- **(c)** sharding / pagination. Will do for v1.
- **(d)** examples. Will do for v1.
- **(e)** mutable vs. immutable events. Will do for v1.

### Mutable vs. immutable events
Deferred until Jordan arrived; flagged for deeper discussion in the next call.

### Identifiers / aliases
**Problem**: CLE documents need a reliable component identifier.

**Two candidate patterns**:
1. Top-level `identifiers` block that accumulates aliases
2. Dedicated "component-alias-added" event (though it isn't a true life-cycle event)

**Agreement so far**: At least **one** canonical PURL (identifier) must appear in the header; skepticism about duplicating the info in both header and events.

### Dynamic support-policy model
Explored idea of computing support windows on-the-fly (e.g. "last two minors") using release metadata. We decided to keep explicit, hard-coded policies; revisit dynamic / shared policies post V1.

### Aliasing across ecosystems (npm, gem, OS repos, Docker, etc.)
Debate on whether variants packaged by the *same* maintainers should share a CLE file or each ship its own.

**Current leaning**: Treat each distribution (npm, gem, distro package, container) as a distinct project with its own CLE, even if they share maintainers & support policy. Aliasing remains an open design question; evidence gathering needed before adding complexity.

### Decisions / Consensus

1. **Dynamic policy generation is out of scope for V1**; stick with explicit policies, make them sharable later.
2. **Canonical identifier required in CLE header**; no separate alias-event for now.

### Next Meeting

Re-visit aliasing solutions plus mutable-vs-immutable decision; target is to lock down MVP schema well before September to keep the December ECMA timeline intact.

## Recording

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u4sj4k1sbpA