<img src="https://tc54.org/images/ecma.svg" align="right" height="70" alt="Ecma logo" /> <!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Meeting on 2025-01-23 for TC54-TG3

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 19:00 to 20:00 UTC
    - timezones: https://internet-ti.me/@834
- **Attendee information**:
  - [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=MGNlbWgwcDdoYWtwbjhvZ[â€¦]4f08c63792f2e654f2a7ebc%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)

## Agenda items

- Group to review [the PR](https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg3/pull/2) created by Benji in this repo
- Brainstorm ways to get more industry participation

## Attendees:

- Steve Springett, OWASP Board of Directors,
- Benji Visser, Xeol, TC54-TG3 co-convener
- Jordan Harband, HeroDevs, TC54-TG3 co-convener
- Salve J. Nilsen, CPAN Security Working Group
- Mark Symons, Fujitsu

## Notes:

- the entire meeting was spent reviewing this PR describing the constraints and goals of the CLE: https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg3/pull/2
- discussing event characteristics: Lifecycle events must be factual, not speculatively inferred.
- claims: challenges with event claims from 3rd parties, maintainer overrides, and using events rather than claims for status tracking.
- integration points: should integrate with PURL and VERS. Should suggest how CLE can integrate for other standards.

Action Items:
- pr review: finalize comments on the rationale document for review and potential merge by next meeting.
- techical choices pr: Benji to create a technical choices document. Team to review as homework before the next meeting.
- add RFC 2119 reference to the rationale document.
- next meeting cheduled for February 6

## Recording

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cEOT7kW8CZA